Lecture for the University of Toronto

COURSE DESCRIPTION:  An introduction to contemporary concepts in the
field of landscape architecture that engages ideas of landscape as an
important force in the design of the urban environment through recent
projects and paradigms. The course will trace the history of
contemporary ideas of landscape architecture as a driver for
city-making back to the works of Frederick Law Olmstead and the origin
of the term 'landscape architecture'. The course will trace these
ideas through time, image and cultural developments both in and
outside the design fields. Lectures will present foundational ideas
then focus on case studies of relevant design projects and
competitions as well as non-design practices such as land art, film,
painting, literature, and the American ‘environmental movement’ that
have influenced the conceptualization of landscape, its representation
and its perceived value in society. The course will be organized
predominantly in a reverse chronology, beginning with ideas of
Landscape, Ecology and Urbanism and moving back through time to early
ideas that lead to the development of contemporary practices.

COURSE OBJECTIVES:  The course aims to provide students with an
understanding of the dramatic shifts occurring in the field of
landscape architecture in recent years and the way in which these
shifts have begun to re-position landscape architecture within the
design professions, particularly those associated with the development
and activation of cities. Students will be exposed to important works
both built and un-built and provided the tools to develop an
appreciation of these projects and their designers within the context
of salient moments in recent history.
